---
date: 2016-03-09T19:56:50+01:00
title: Toolbox
weight: 20
---

## Start working

After you had a look inside your `toolbox.json` configuration file and updated settings as wanted, you are ready to get started. To start working and watch all your changes automatically, you can run:

```sh
yarn start
```

## Scaffolding

The basic structure of your styleguide should respect this structure to work with the pre-built tasks:

```sh
assets
├── components
│   ├── atoms
│   │   └── my-component
│   │       ├── my-component.scss
│   │       ├── my-component.twig
│   │       └── my-component.yml
│   ├── base.js
│   ├── base.scss
│   ├── molecules
│   ├── organisms
│   └── pages
├── config
│   ├── bootstrap.scss
│   ├── data.json
│   ├── styleguide.scss
│   └── variables.scss
├── favicons
│   └── README.md
├── fonts
├── icons
│   └── svg-icons.js
├── images
└── svg
```

## Components

### Structure

A component is always inside the `assets/components` directory, in the corresponding subdirectory (atoms, ...). The name of the directory is important and all files inside should have the same base name.

```sh
my-component
├── my-component.scss
├── my-component.twig
└── my-component.yml
```

- The SCSS file should contain all the styles related to the component, and **only** these styles.
- The Twig file should contain all the markup for this component
- The YAML file is the configuration for this file. It can contain several things:
  - `title`: machine name of the component, used by the Toolbox Reader to generate the styleguide
  - `title`: name of the component as it will be displayed in the styleguide
  - `variants`: list of variants, see section [Add variants](#add-variants-to-a-component) for more info
  - other options to come...

### Add variants to a component

You can add variants to a component. To do this, follow these steps:

1. Add a line inside the `my-component.yml` file, under the `variants` entry:

  ```yml
  variants:
    - variant-name
  ```

2. Create a file named following this pattern: `[name-of-your-component]-[variant-name].twig`:

  ```sh
  my-component
  ├── my-component.scss
  ├── my-component.twig
  ├── my-component.yml
  └── my-component-variant-name.twig
  ```
3. The styles should reside inside the component SCSS file.

### Handle data

You can add some data in `assets/data.json` and call it directly inside your template, through the power of Twig.

data.json content:
```json
{
  "colors": {
    "black": "#000",
    "red": "#f00"
  }
}
```

Inside component:

```twig
<p>{{ colors.black }}</p>
```

## Twig usage

You can use Twig as a template engine for all your components. Check [Twig documentation](https://twig.sensiolabs.org/doc/2.x/) for more info. 

### Namespacing

Every `include` call should however be namespaced as follows:

```twig
{% include "molecules::my-component/my-component.twig" %}
```

## Add new components

To add new components, just run:

```sh
yo toolbox:generate
```

You will get a choice between several components, based on the [Atomic Design](http://bradfrost.com/blog/post/atomic-web-design/) principles:

- **Atom**: should be the smallest parts of your design (button, heading, icon, ...)
- **Molecule**: should be a group of atoms (search input, card, ...)
- **Organism**: should be a group of molecules (header, footer, sidebar, ...)
- **Page**: should be a group of organisms (homepage, ...)
- **Doc Page**: should be a simple documentation page

## Build the styleguide

The styleguide is generated by the Toolbox Reader app, called via CDN. You don't need to install anything, the latest version will be called automagically. You can generate only the built assets for production by running:

```sh
yarn build
```

If you want to export the complete styleguide as a standalone, to deploy on gh-pages for example, just run:

```sh
yarn build styleguide
```
